Idea 1: Predicting Agricultural Yield and Cropland Distribution with Changing Climates

While agriculture is a major contributor to carbon emissions, the industry is also affected by the changing climate. In general, crop yields are affected by weather and climate patterns. As temperatures rise, rainfall becomes eratic and atmospheric carbon increases, the quantity and nutritional quality of our current agriculture production falters. These changes may not affect all nations equally, but would have a dire impact on the global production and food security. As the quantity and quality decreases, we may face the need to clear more forests for croplands, use more intensive irrigation systems and chemical fertilizers. This would further increase aqriculture’s contribution to global carbon emissions, thus, worsening the situation.  

In this project, we’ve built a machine learning model to predict how agriculture production is affected as the climate changes, assuming that our current agricultural practices do not change.  We have also reconstructed images of how croplands will change in different climate change scenarios.


Idea 2: Locating Tidal Farms Locations Using Ocean Currents

Tidal farms are a group of tidal stream generators that use moving tides to generate energy. This makes the energy genrated more predictable than that generated by on-shore wind farms. However, they pose a threat to plant and animal life and thus need to be located in places where disruption to aquatic life is minimized. This product uses a machine learning model with ocean currents and aquatic life distributions to recommend locations for setting up tidal farms. 
